When you explain the outcomes of a study to others,
you want to make sure that they truly say what you truly mean.
In a single word, you want the outcomes to be valid.
Validity is simply how well your experiment
actually accomplishes what it sets out to perform.
There are three major ways for our experiment to be valid: through construct validity,
internal validity, and external validity.
First, you want to make sure that your metrics are aligned with your study's goals.
This is called construct validity.
You've seen an example of a metric with poor construct validity earlier in the lesson.
Recall the proposed metric citing that the number of searches
as an indicator of the goodness of a recommendation engine.
Since the metric might be measuring something
that is not aligned with the engine's quality,
using it would lower the experiment's construct validity.
Secondly, you want to make sure that claims of causality are supported by the analysis.
This is called internal validity.
You've also seen aspects of poor internal validity in a previous video.
Poor internal validity can be demonstrated by saying
that ice cream sales cause an increase in crime rates.
Simply taking the correlation between the two as a causal relationship without accounting
for other variables like temperature is a sign that internal validity has not been met.
The third and final branch, external validity,
is concerned with the ability to generalize the results of
an experiment to the population at large or to other groups.
This differs from construct validity since in experiment's metric might
appropriately apply towards a project goal but only towards a narrow group.
For example, let's say we tested out
an alternative instruction method on a group of
college students and saw a huge improvement in their test scores.
With respect to external validity,
we need to consider if those results could be generalized to students at
other colleges or even a wider audience outside of academic institutions.